[reword]: Simplify and remove unclear clarifications and old info (#48)
hyperledger/iroha-2-docs: src/index.md

## Iroha 2 vs. Iroha 1

Iroha 2 is a complete re-write of Hyperledger Iroha in Rust. As of writing the two projects are developed concurrently.

> Iroha 2 learned a great deal from the development of the original Iroha. Of particular importance is the new and improved Byzantine-fault-tolerant consensus algorithm: _Sumeragi_. This new consensus allowed us to expand what could be done on a blockchain without any security risks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Iroha 2 learned a great deal from the development of the original Iroha. Of particular importance is the new and improved Byzantine-fault-tolerant consensus algorithm: _Sumeragi_. This new consensus allowed us to expand what could be done on a blockchain, without any security risks.
```

::: info

The first version of Iroha used a consensus algorithm called _Yac_. It is _crash-fault-tolerant_, which means that it can survive a set number of nodes _crashing_: i.e. losing power, being cut off from the network, or being destroyed with a sledgehammer. _Sumeragi_, by contrast, was designed to be _Byzantine-fault-tolerant_. This means that Iroha 2 can tolerate not only peers being inactive on the network, but also running malicious software, and actively trying to falsify data in the blockchain.

We can mathematically prove that **Iroha 2 can work when up to 33% of its nodes are actively trying to stop Iroha 2 from working properly** (_or at all_). In other words, even if someone gained control of a _third_ of all of your network nodes, an Iroha 2 deployment is _mathematically guaranteed_ to keep working.
:::

> Iroha 2 is a minimalist code base. We take great care to vet our dependencies, and avoid large inter-dependent chunks of code. We provide a few telemetry APIs, including `prometheus` tooling, structured logging in JSON, as well as compatibility with [standard tools](https://wiki.sora.org/sora-faq) used in Parity Substrate. Our data is strongly-typed, and our methods — statically dispatched. We make use of the best that Rust has to offer: `serde` and `parity_scale_codec` for serialisation, `tokio` for co-operative multi-threading, as well as wealth of testing, bench-marking, static analysis and code auditing tools that come packaged with the exemplary `cargo`. Our code is easy to reason about, and quick to compile, whilst also being ergonomic to use and thoughtfully crafted. We have no `panics` and no `unsafe` code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Iroha 2 is a minimalist code base. We take great care to vet our dependencies and avoid large inter-dependent chunks of code. We provide a few telemetry APIs, including `prometheus` tooling, structured logging in JSON, as well as compatibility with [standard tools](https://wiki.sora.org/sora-faq) used in Parity Substrate. Our data is strongly-typed, and our methods are statically dispatched. We make use of the best that Rust has to offer: `serde` and `parity_scale_codec` for serialisation, `tokio` for co-operative multi-threading, as well as a wealth of testing, bench-marking, static analysis, and code auditing tools that come packaged with the exemplary `cargo`. Our code is easy to reason about and quick to compile, whilst also being ergonomic to use and thoughtfully crafted. We have no `panics` and no `unsafe` code.
```

> Iroha 2 is a minimalist code base. We take great care to vet our dependencies, and avoid large inter-dependent chunks of code. We provide a few telemetry APIs, including `prometheus` tooling, structured logging in JSON, as well as compatibility with [standard tools](https://wiki.sora.org/sora-faq) used in Parity Substrate. Our data is strongly-typed, and our methods — statically dispatched. We make use of the best that Rust has to offer: `serde` and `parity_scale_codec` for serialisation, `tokio` for co-operative multi-threading, as well as wealth of testing, bench-marking, static analysis and code auditing tools that come packaged with the exemplary `cargo`. Our code is easy to reason about, and quick to compile, whilst also being ergonomic to use and thoughtfully crafted. We have no `panics` and no `unsafe` code.

Reviewer 2: is the statement about no panics true?

Author: It is. We have a few panics left, but by the time we release the LTS, almost all of them will be gone.

> Iroha 2 is also more flexible than the original Iroha, owing to modular design. It should be possible to add/remove features based on the particular use-case.  If you want to be extremely fast, and work on embedded hardware, just compile Iroha 2 without the `expensive-metrics` feature. Don't use telemetry at all? Remove it entirely and enjoy even more performance. _Permission_ sets are plugins that can be upgraded during run-time. We have an extensive module system as well as a robust WASM runtime framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Iroha 2 is also more flexible than the original Iroha, owing to its modular design. It should be possible to add/remove features based on the particular use-case.  If you want to be extremely fast and work on embedded hardware, just compile Iroha 2 without the `expensive-metrics` feature. Don't use telemetry at all? Remove it entirely and enjoy even more performance. _Permission_ sets are plugins that can be upgraded during run-time. We have an extensive module system as well as a robust WASM runtime framework.
```

> Iroha 2 is also more flexible than the original Iroha, owing to modular design. It should be possible to add/remove features based on the particular use-case.  If you want to be extremely fast, and work on embedded hardware, just compile Iroha 2 without the `expensive-metrics` feature. Don't use telemetry at all? Remove it entirely and enjoy even more performance. _Permission_ sets are plugins that can be upgraded during run-time. We have an extensive module system as well as a robust WASM runtime framework.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Iroha 2 is also more flexible than the original Iroha due to modular design. It is possible to add or remove features based on the particular use-case.  If you want to be extremely fast, and work on embedded hardware, just compile Iroha 2 without the `expensive-metrics` feature. Don't use telemetry at all? Remove it entirely and enjoy even more performance. _Permission_ sets are plugins that can be upgraded during run-time. We have an extensive module system as well as a robust WASM runtime framework.
```

Iroha 2 is an event-driven ledger. Each change in the state of the blockchain is necessarily accompanied by its own event that can _trigger_ a smartcontract: complex logic designed for use in on-chain scripting.

> For smart contracts, Iroha 2 supports two approaches.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For smart contracts, Iroha 2 supports two approaches:
```

- Iroha Special Instructions (ISI)
- Web ASseMbly (WASM)

> The first approach is useful when you want very simple transparent logic, and want to minimise the footprint in the blockchain. All interactions with the _World state_, that is, the state of the blockchain at this point in time, has to be done using the aforementioned instructions. There is also rudimentary support for domain-specific conditional logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first approach is useful when you want very simple transparent logic, and want to minimise the footprint in the blockchain. All interactions with the _World state_, that is, the state of the blockchain at this point in time, have to be done using the aforementioned instructions. There is also rudimentary support for domain-specific conditional logic.
```

> However sometimes you might want to run something more complex, e.g. do some conditional evaluation. For this purpose, we have designed a library for loading portable executables in the WASM format; write the logic in any language that supports compilation to WASM and worry not about the cost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, sometimes you might want to run something more complex, e.g. do some conditional evaluation. For this purpose, we have designed a library for loading portable executables in the WASM format; write the logic in any language that supports compilation to WASM and worry not about the cost.
```

> However sometimes you might want to run something more complex, e.g. do some conditional evaluation. For this purpose, we have designed a library for loading portable executables in the WASM format; write the logic in any language that supports compilation to WASM and worry not about the cost.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, sometimes you might want to run something more complex, e.g. do some conditional evaluation. For this purpose, we have designed a library for loading portable executables in the WASM format; write the logic in any language that supports compilation to WASM and worry not about the cost.
```

If you want to learn more about smartcontracts in Iroha 2, please consult our [Wiki](https://wiki.hyperledger.org/display/iroha/Scripting+Languages+and+Runtimes+for+Iroha2+Smart+Contracts)._

<!-- Long-term deployment of Iroha 2 networks was something that we considered very early in its development. There are **Iroha Special instructions**, that enact upgrades of the network into a consistent state. Iroha nodes can operate if other nodes in the network run different versions of the Iroha 2 binary. -->

> Iroha 2 smartly chooses when to use dynamic linking. This strikes a balance between it being easy to patch a Critical security vulnerability in a vendored library like OpenSSL, but also remaining reproducible and portable across platforms, architectures and deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Iroha 2 smartly chooses when to use dynamic linking. This strikes a balance between it being easy to patch a Critical security vulnerability in a vendored library like OpenSSL, but also remaining reproducible and portable across platforms, architectures, and deployments.
```

::: info

You get the best of both worlds. Patching a security vulnerability is as easy as running `sudo apt upgrade`. On the other hand, only security-critical dependencies are linked dynamically, so it is highly unlikely that any of the smaller and less important libraries can break Iroha after an upgrade.

:::

> Iroha 2 is extensively tested. Despite being in active development, Iroha has 80% line coverage (keep in mind, line coverage includes documentation comments, some of which are also tests). There are plans to include Fuzz testing, property-based testing and failure-point testing to ensure that Iroha is reliable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Iroha 2 is extensively tested. Despite being in active development, Iroha has 80% line coverage (keep in mind, line coverage includes documentation comments, some of which are also tests). There are plans to include Fuzz testing, property-based testing, and failure-point testing to ensure that Iroha is reliable.
```

The list of headlining features goes on. As we are nearing our first long-term supported preview release, we'll be updating the guide with relevant changes.

## Tutorial preamble

What follows is an introduction suitable for both experienced developers, prospective users, and people casually curious about blockchain technology. The level of detail is sufficient so that you wouldn't need any supplementary guide. However, should you want to learn more, we have more detailed documentation in the works.

In this guide, we shall walk you through
- starting an Iroha network, either with docker (recommended) or using one of the provided scripts;

> - introduce you to the client libraries;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- an introduction to the client libraries;
```

> - we shall then take a small detour into the basic concepts of Iroha special instructions, and how they interact with the world state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- and we will then take a small detour into the basic concepts of Iroha special instructions, as well as how they interact with the world state.
```

> In this guide, we shall walk you through
> - starting an Iroha network, either with docker (recommended) or using one of the provided scripts;
> - introduce you to the client libraries;
> - we shall then take a small detour into the basic concepts of Iroha special instructions, and how they interact with the world state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this guide, we shall
- walk you through starting an Iroha network, either with docker (recommended) or using one of the provided scripts;
- introduce you to the client libraries;
- take a small detour into the basic concepts of Iroha special instructions, and how they interact with the world state.
```

We can mathematically prove that **Iroha 2 can work when up to 33% of its nodes are actively trying to stop Iroha 2 from working properly** (_or at all_). In other words, even if someone gained control of a _third_ of all of your network nodes, an Iroha 2 deployment is _mathematically guaranteed_ to keep working.
:::

Iroha 2 is a minimalist code base. We take great care to vet our dependencies, and avoid large inter-dependent chunks of code. We provide a few telemetry APIs, including `prometheus` tooling, structured logging in JSON, as well as compatibility with [standard tools](https://wiki.sora.org/sora-faq) used in Parity Substrate. Our data is strongly-typed, and our methods — statically dispatched. We make use of the best that Rust has to offer: `serde` and `parity_scale_codec` for serialisation, `tokio` for co-operative multi-threading, as well as wealth of testing, bench-marking, static analysis and code auditing tools that come packaged with the exemplary `cargo`. Our code is easy to reason about, and quick to compile, whilst also being ergonomic to use and thoughtfully crafted. We have no `panics` and no `unsafe` code.

> Iroha 2 is also more flexible than the original Iroha due to modular design. It is possible to add or remove features based on the particular use-case.  If you want to be extremely fast, and work on embedded hardware, just compile Iroha 2 without the `expensive-metrics` feature. Don't use telemetry at all? Remove it entirely and enjoy even more performance. _Permission_ sets are plugins that can be upgraded during run-time. We have an extensive module system as well as a robust WASM runtime framework.

Author: For the record, two spaces after a full stop is preferred in plain text formats such as LaTeX, Org and RST, but if I'm the only one following this convention it will lead to confusion for everyone who doesn't.
